The main operation and transformer
is the scale bus product attention.
You've already seen attention in
the first week of this course.
In this video,
I'll remind you how it works.
First, I'll remind you of the formula
used for scale dot products attention.
Then you'll see some
details about the math and
the dimensions of the queries keys and
values.
Recall that in scale dot-products
attention, you have queries, keys and
values.
The attention layer outputs
contacts vectors for each query.
And the context vectors are weighted
sums of the values where the similarity
between the queries and keys determines
the weights assigned to each value.
The SoftMax ensures that the weights add
up to 1 and the division by the square
roots of the dimension of the key
factors is used to improve performance.
The scale dot-product attention
mechanism is very efficient since it
relies only on matrix multiplication and
SoftMax.
Additionally, you could implement this
attention mechanism to run on GPUs or
TPUs to speed up training.
To get the query, key and value matrices,
you must first transform the words in your
sequences toward embedding's,
let's take the sentence.
Je suis heureux are source for
the queries.
You'll need to get the embedding
vector for the word Je.
Then for the words suis and
finally for the word heureux.
The query matrix will contain all
of these embedding vectors as rows.
Not that the matrix sizes given by
the size of the word embeddings and
the length of the sequence.
To get the key matrix let's use
a source of the sentence I am happy.
You will get the embedding for
each word in the sentence and
stack them together to
form the key matrix.
You will generally use the same
vectors used for the key matrix for
the value matrix.
But you could also transform them first.
Nodes however, that the number of
vectors used to form the key and
value matrix must be the same.
Now you can revisit the scale attention
formula that I showed you before
to get a sense of the dimensions of
the matrices involved at every time step.
First, you compute the matrix
products between the query and
the transpose of the key matrix.
You scale it by the inverse of the square
of the dimension of the key vectors,
D sub K and calculate the SoftMax.
This competition will give you a matrix
with the weights for each keeper query.
Therefore the weight matrix
will have a total number of
elements equal to the number of
queries times the number of keys.
And thus matrix, the third element in
the second row would correspond to
the weights assigned to the third key for
the second query.
After the computation
of the weights matrix,
you can multiply it with the value
matrix to get a matrix that has rows and
the context vector
corresponding to each query.
And the number of columns on this matrix
is equal to the size of the value vectors,
which is often the same
as the embedding sites.
Scale dot-product attention is
the heart and soul of transformers.
In general terms,
this mechanism takes queries, keys and
values as matrices of embedding's.
It is composed of just two matrix
multiplication and a SoftMax function.
Therefore, you could
consider using GPUs and
TPUs to speed up the training of
models that rely on this mechanism.
Now you understand that
products attention very well.
In the transformer decoder,
we need an extended version
called the self-masked attention.
I'll teach you about it in the next video.